Bodhichitta is so really so crucial, important, and we like to get again enlightenment. Bodhichitta
is enlightenment.
Bodhichitta is the enlightenment, when we see now, it's called bodhichi, but when that becomes big,
then enlightenment, Buddha.
But in time, our bodhichitta is small because of the old obscurations, but we have to extend and we
revere that from the deep of our Buddha-nature, revere.
For those who don't remember, someone said in one of his teachings, "Lamram Rakeem Tingwa," he said
, "Love and compassion, wisdom are the mind of the Buddha."
Love, compassion, wisdom, are the mind of the Buddha.
So that means, when we have love and compassion, wisdom, love to ourselves, love to the other
beings,
and compassion to ourselves, compassion to all the beings, and understanding the exact meaning and
value and importance of the wisdom of the compassion,
and the reason to be nice and compassion to everyone, that is the wisdom. That is enlightenment.
So that means, when we have that mind, really the enlightenment is shining in our heart.
As, of course, in the teachings mentioned, we all have that. Buddha-nature and the Buddha is
residing right in the heart center.
So that is so important. For that reason, in the great month, Kamala Shala said in his teachings,
he wrote three instructions on the meditation, the first one, the second one, and the third one,
and all asked by the person of the king.
So he wrote in the second one, and he said, "I don't know how to say it myself,
but I follow the light of the precious teacher Buddha and will tell you how to express it."
He said, "Enlightenment is rooted to the compassion."
"Buddha-hood is rooted in the compassion and caused by the body together, assisted by the skillful
means, methods."
"That three combined together will discover the Buddha."
So compassion, enlightenment, or the body together, enlightenment is rooted in the compassion.
Compassion is so important. That means, the body together is rooted in the compassion.
Compassion for all the beings, all the beings without any discrimination.
And then body together, we heard so many sounds, do you know?
Combined with that, what is skill means? I said skill means. That is the meditary activities.
Akumalaiha Mary was the Mary. That is, as I say, simply, you all know.
It's six paramata. Six paramata practice is meditary activities.
It is like post three or four are. Post three or four are the Akumalaiha Mary's practices.
Last one, Pandya paramata, paramata, is worship, worship Akumalaiha practices.
And then some masters said, the concentration in Pandya paramata both are worship marriages.
But concentration has also concentration with shamatha, without the shamatha.
Shamatha meditation means with the conceptions, with talk.
So the worship is beyond the conception.
Beyond the conception, like Dzokhi meditation, Mahamudra meditation, is beyond the conception, or
particularly Dzokhi, teaching.
Really, according to teaching, is beyond the conception. That is worship.
So that means generosity practices, morality practices, patient practices,
and concentration practices, all Akumalaiha Marys.
And worship of paramata is then worship of Marys.
Then what about joyful effort to the virtuous paramata?
In the teachings, that is supported to all the paramatas. Joyful support is supported.
Joyful support to the virtuous is the fuel of all the paramatas.
All joyful effort to the virtuous is fuel to Akumalaiha Mary, Muslim Marys.
Muslim Mary. So it's a fuel.
Without the joyful effort and courage and commitment in devils, we're not going to do any of those.
So, therefore, this is what was said. So, therefore, bodhijada is so, really, so, so unparable.
For those reasons, in the grandma's department, but you also said what they said.
If you have one thing that's enough to get enlightenment, it's bodhijada.
If you don't have one thing, no matter how much it's fancy and/or renowned, well-known practice,
you have, it won't go any path. That is bodhijada.
And so truly unmistakable cause to reach enlightenment is the bodhijada, and I pay homage to the
bodhijada.
That's what the grandma's department said. It's really important reason.
Also, zobchin teaching is also named bodhijada. Zobchin practices name bodhijada.
So that's how, I mean, it's all that, that is. So therefore, bodhijada is, again, very important.
All the time, really, every time we have that, then our practice, everything really goes well.
Your application, bodhijada, all comes together, then everything.
I mean, that's the one gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni said,
also, in his teaching, one of the sattaras, two king-personjata of the king of the koshala, koshala
or the sarastha now.
Sarastha came, he said, "Oh, great king, you have so many duties, so many responsibilities, so many
chores to do,
but if you keep one thing, then everything will come."
All the enlightenment, all the realization will come together. If you keep one thing, and which is
bodhijada.
If you keep one, bodhijada, all the enlightens really will come.
With those understanding, and then with...